---
output: word_document
---
##CodeBook for run_analysis.R

Data was generated by 30 individuals who were peforming six activities. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 
<a href=http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones>http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones</a> 

1. Original data set
2. Transformation of the original data set into a clean and tidy data set

###1. Original Data Set
The following categories of data were included in the original:<br>
tBodyAcc-XYZ<br>
tGravityAcc-XYZ<br>
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ<br>
tBodyGyro-XYZ<br>
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ<br>
tBodyAccMag<br>
tGravityAccMag<br>
tBodyAccJerkMag<br>
tBodyGyroMag<br>
tBodyGyroJerkMag<br>
fBodyAcc-XYZ<br>
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ<br>
fBodyGyro-XYZ<br>
fBodyAccMag<br>
fBodyAccJerkMag<br>
fBodyGyroMag<br>
fBodyGyroJerkMag<br>
<br>
For each of the above categories, the variables below were included:<br>
mean(): Mean value<br>
std(): Standard deviation<br>
mad(): Median absolute deviation<br> 
max(): Largest value in array<br>
min(): Smallest value in array<br>
sma(): Signal magnitude area<br>
energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. <br>
iqr(): Interquartile range <br>
entropy(): Signal entropy<br>
arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4<br>
correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals<br>
maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude<br>
meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency<br>
skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal <br>
kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal <br>
bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.<br>
angle(): Angle between to vectors.<br>
<br>
Some additional variables were generated:<br>
gravityMean<br>
tBodyAccMean<br>
tBodyAccJerkMean<br>
tBodyGyroMean<br>
tBodyGyroJerkMean<br>

###2. Transformation of the original data set into a clean and tidy data set
a. Only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement were included. 
b. Descriptive activity names replaced numerical codes in the data set
c. The appropriate descriptive variable names were added as column headings.
d. Finally, a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject was created. 
